<h1>Heart Disease Detector</h1>

The Healthcare sector has a lot of data stored that has useful information and inferences that could be retrieved or drawn from the data, which helps make effective decisions and conclusions about the importance of the various features of the data. For finding useful patterns and trends to use it or make decisions based on this data, various existing machine learning algorithms can be applied. In this project, we apply these various algorithms to a dataset to understand the significance and also provide some insights about the data. We have narrowed down the factors to 13 attributes like age, gender, BP, chol, chest pain type and ECG and few others for processing. By evaluating these factors in the form of raw data, we predict the chances of a person having some heart condition and also meanwhile finding the root cause or factor that influences the result the most, using the existing libraries and models. Multiple models were trained and tested to improve the accuracy of our prediction and evaluate their performance in hindsight.

We were able to minimize the False Negative rate to as low as 0.06 using the extreme gradient boost algorithm. Also, we have obtained the highest accuracy by using SVM classifier which also has a pretty low false negative rate than the others. Hence, classification algorithms instead of regression have provided the best results for us as the outliers are better dealt using these classification algorithms.
Our secondary objective, which was to determine how much the attributes influence the result, is also achieved by using the function in xgb library which showed us that cp (chest pain) type turned out to be the top attribute in this list followed by 3 other attributes which had similar role in determining the result.
